Changelog - 2011
================

0.13.4 / 2011-09-23
-------------------

- fix util.closerange function used to prevent leaking fds on python 2.5
  (typo)

0.13.3 / 2011-09-19
-------------------
- refactor gevent worker
- prevent leaking fds on reexec
- fix inverted request_time computation

0.13.2 / 2011-09-17
-------------------

- Add support for Tornado 2.0 in tornado worker
- Improve access logs: allows customisation of the log format & add
  request time
- Logger module is now pluggable
- Improve graceful shutdown in Python versions >= 2.6
- Fix post_request root arity for compatibility
- Fix sendfile support
- Fix Django reloading

0.13.1 / 2011-08-22
-------------------

- Fix unix socket. log argument was missing.

0.13.0 / 2011-08-22
-------------------

- Improve logging: allows file-reopening and add access log file
  compatible with the `apache combined log format <http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.0/logs.html#combined>`_
- Add the possibility to set custom SSL headers. X-Forwarded-Protocol
  and X-Forwarded-SSL are still the default
- New `on_reload` hook to customize how gunicorn spawn new workers on
  SIGHUP
- Handle projects with relative path in django_gunicorn command
- Preserve path parameters in PATH_INFO
- post_request hook now accepts the environ as argument.
- When stopping the arbiter, close the listener asap.
- Fix Django command `run_gunicorn` in settings reloading
- Fix Tornado_ worker exiting
- Fix the use of sendfile in wsgi.file_wrapper


0.12.2 / 2011-05-18
-------------------

- Add wsgi.file_wrapper optimised for FreeBSD, Linux & MacOSX (use
  sendfile if available)
- Fix django run_gunicorn command. Make sure we reload the application
  code.
- Fix django localisation
- Compatible with gevent 0.14dev

0.12.1 / 2011-03-23
-------------------

- Add "on_starting" hook. This hook can be used to set anything before
  the arbiter really start
- Support bdist_rpm in setup
- Improve content-length handling (pep 3333)
- Improve Django support
- Fix daemonizing (#142)
- Fix ipv6 handling


.. _Tornado: http://www.tornadoweb.org/
