Changelog - 2013
================

18.0 / 2013-08-26
-----------------

- new: add ``-e/--env`` command line argument to pass an environment variables to
  gunicorn
- new: add ``--chdir`` command line argument to specified directory
  before apps loading.  - new: add wsgi.file_wrapper support in async workers
- new: add ``--paste`` command line argument to set the paster config file
- deprecated: the command ``gunicorn_django`` is now deprecated. You should now
  run your application with the WSGI interface installed with your project (see
  https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.4/howto/deployment/wsgi/gunicorn/) for
  more infos.
- deprecated:  the command ``gunicorn_paste`` is deprecated. You now should use
  the new ``--paste`` argument to set the configuration file of your paster
  application.
- fix: Removes unmatched leading quote from the beginning of the default access
  log format string
- fix: null timeout
- fix: gevent worker
- fix: don't reload the paster app when using pserve
- fix: after closing for error do not keep alive the connection
- fix: responses 1xx, 204 and 304 should not force the connection to be closed

17.5 / 2013-07-03
------------------

- new: add signals documentation
- new: add post_worker_init hook for workers
- new: try to use gunicorn.conf.py in current folder as the default
  config file.
- fix graceful timeout with the Eventlet worker
- fix: don't raise an error when closing the socket if already closed
- fix: fix --settings parameter for django application and try to find
  the django settings when using the ``gunicorn`` command.
- fix: give the initial global_conf to paster application
- fix: fix 'Expect: 100-continue' support on Python 3

New versionning:
++++++++++++++++

With this release, the versionning of Gunicorn is changing. Gunicorn is
stable since a long time and there is no point to release a "1.0" now.
It should have been done since a long time. 0.17 really meant it was the
17th stable version. From the beginning we have only 2 kind of
releases:

major release: releases with major changes or huge features added
services releases: fixes and minor features added So from now we will
apply the following versionning ``<major>.<service>``. For example ``17.5`` is a
service release.

0.17.4 / 2013-04-24
-------------------

- fix unix socket address parsing

0.17.3 / 2013-04-23
-------------------

- add systemd sockets support
- add ``python -m gunicorn.app.wsgiapp`` support
- improve logger class inheritance
- exit when the config file isn't found
- add the -R option to enable stdio inheritance in daemon mode
- don't close file descriptors > 3 in daemon mode
- improve STDOUT/STDERR logging
- fix pythonpath option
- fix pidfile creation on Python 3
- fix gevent worker exit
- fix ipv6 detection when the platform isn't supporting it

0.17.2 / 2013-01-07
-------------------

- optimize readline
- make imports errors more visible when loading an app or a logging
  class
- fix tornado worker: don't pass ssl options if there are none
- fix PEP3333: accept only bytetrings in the response body
- fix support on CYGWIN platforms

0.17.1 / 2013-01-05
-------------------

- add syslog facility name setting
- fix ``--version`` command line argument
- fix wsgi url_scheme for https
